The President:
Hi everybody.
Right now,
the United States Senate
is debating a bipartisan,
commonsense bill
that would be an important step
toward fixing our broken
immigration system.
It's a bill
that would continue
to strengthen
security at our borders,
and hold employers
more accountable
if they knowingly hire
undocumented workers,
so they won't have
an unfair advantage
over businesses
that follow the law.
It's a bill
that would modernize
the legal immigration
system so that,
as we train American workers
for the jobs of tomorrow,
we're also attracting
the highly skilled entrepreneurs
and engineers who grow
our economy for everyone.
It's a bill that would
provide a pathway
to earned citizenship for
the 11 million individuals
who are in this
country illegally -
a pathway that includes
passing a background check,
learning English,
paying taxes and a penalty,
then going to the
back of the line
behind everyone trying
to come here legally.
And, a few days ago,
a report from the Congressional
Budget Office definitively
showed that this bipartisan,
commonsense bill will help
the middle class grow our
economy and shrink our deficits,
by making sure that
every worker in America
plays by the same
set of rules
and pays taxes
like everyone else.
According to this
independent report,
reforming our immigration
system would reduce
our deficits by almost
a trillion dollars
over the next two decades.
And it will boost our economy
by more than 5 percent,
in part because of businesses
created, investments made,
and technologies
invented by immigrants.
This comes on the heels
of another report
from the independent office
that monitors
Social Security's finances,
which says that
this immigration bill
would actually strengthen
the long-term health and solvency
of Social Security
for future generations.
Because with this bill,
millions of additional people
will start paying more
in taxes for things
like Social Security
and education.
That'll make the economy fairer
for middle-class families.
So that's what comprehensive
immigration reform looks like.
Stronger enforcement.
A smarter legal
immigration system.
A pathway to
earned citizenship.
A more vibrant, growing
economy that's fairer
on the middle class.
And a more stable fiscal
future for our kids.
Now, the bill isn't perfect.
It's a compromise.
Nobody is going to get
everything they want -
not Democrats,
not Republicans, not me.
But it's consistent
with the principles
that I and others have laid out
for commonsense reform.
That's why Republicans
and Democrats,
CEOs and labor leaders,
are saying that now is
the time to pass this bill.
If you agree with us,
reach out to your Senators
and Representatives.
Tell them that the time
for excuses is over;
it's time to fix our
broken immigration system
once and for all.
We can do this, because
we are a nation of laws
and a nation of immigrants;
a place enriched by
the contributions of people
from all over the world,
and stronger for it.
That's been the story of
America from the start.
Let's keep it going.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.